when you look at a shipping container
the last thing that you think of is a
house but it never ceases to amaze me
how people can take these cold metal
boxes and turn them into wonderful
welcoming homes today we're in Victoria
where one young couple has taken three
of these 20-foot shipping containers and
turned them into a remarkably designed
home
[Music]
hello Amy
hi Bryce nice to meet you lovely to meet
you g'day wretch how's it goin this
house it's super super cool this is
actually three 20-foot shipping
containers all attached together isn't
it that's correct yes how did this all
actually come about we didn't need a big
home and I guess the shouldn't hanger is
already available to us so we had use of
them so we kind of built to our needs
and also we wanted to keep a low debt
level so we can continue the lifestyle
that we like which is lots of holidays
and going overseas with rich being
English and having family over there so
it's another reason why we thought that
a smaller dwelling would fit our
lifestyle we came to be living in this
home about two years ago after
travelling to Europe for your cousin's
wedding
we really really ated what was needed in
a home and also what the essential tick
boxes in life were so when we decided to
go down the home building journey we
decided to go down the untraditional
route the design that you've come up
with here is really cool can you tell me
about how you actually laid them all out
like this we wanted something that
created a little bit of separation
between the kitchen dining the study the
living and then our sleeping quarters so
we decided to stagger them to get the
best passive solar design as well as a
little bit of interest with the links
and the staggering of the containers so
it looks aesthetically pleasing when you
drive up as well with the three
containers and then the adjoining
factors together do you know what the
total size of this home is yes it's
around four to nine point two square
metres and what about the property we're
on right now how did you come across
this it's my parents property so we are
on five acres of it and they're on the
other five acres so it's be subdivided
this is a shipping container home and
yet looking at it you really wouldn't
think so because you've cleared
everything can you tell me a little bit
about how you've done all of that we've
used a colorbond product called designer
panel it's an interlock coating it's
fantastic because it's low maintenance
and it's very easy to
install so with cladding it you've also
gained that sort of space in between
which you can add insulation or you've
got that air barrier in between the
steel the shipping container and the
outside cladding and that's also the
same thing with the inside way you've
got the inside clad so you can also gain
that sort of extra 17 mil of space to
insulate so it's like like a sandwich we
really tried to push the boundaries with
this project with our insulation to gain
a higher star rating because in
Australia you require at least a minimum
six star this homes seven point one so
we've got the double clave timber
windows and then the bulk insulation in
the ceiling and also under the floor
looking at the roof this is a really
clever design as well because obviously
by having the additional roof you're
creating a little bit of shade and
helping to cool down the space but
you've also filled it with solar is this
house totally off the grid not
completely off grid due to financial
reasons we couldn't afford batteries and
we're first installing but that is one
of our aims for the future
we do have a feed-in tariff so it does
offset our usage which is fantastic and
then bunch of hangers huge roof
structure across all the containers
since we're collecting our own water too
so there's a couple a large tanks out
the back collecting water throughout the
year excellent what sizes are your tanks
wave collecting around 30,000 litres we
initially started off with 20,000 and
due to a very dry summer and autumn we
decided to put another one in just to
safeguard ourselves so how many watts of
solar did you manage to get on the roof
here we went for a 3.75 kilowatt system
as there's only two people living in the
house at this present time
well this is such a unique looking home
I cannot wait to see how it all works on
the inside come on in yes please thank
you
this is stunning we absolutely love our
home we really enjoy using this space
one of the big things was being healthy
for the human the end-user as well so
it's all zero Finola hired joiner that's
in place so it's healthy for us to
breathe and the finish that we've put on
the plywood as well is low video C so
it's healthy for us to use the styling
here is very modern as well isn't it
absolutely it's something that we went
for we just liked it to be a bit
timeless so you know in 20 years time we
hope we're still living here and we you
know don't want to be changing things on
trend or anything like that we'd rather
have a really nice clean line kitchen so
we can avoid that
and tell me about the design of your
kitchen a big thing with our kitchen is
we want to dishwasher just so people
over time for you can utilize that so we
decided to go with a half draw
dishwasher which is nice and compact we
also wanted enough storage for pots and
pans we don't use many appliances but
there's enough storage for those bits
that we do use I obviously really enjoy
my little bits and pieces of ceramics
and cookbooks so we made sure that they
were always on show in the kitchen
design as well and you've got a really
good amount of prep area here as well
yeah so you maybe think with having
containers you're almost restricted with
your joinery so it has to go into
certain places but we've been quite
lucky with how it's positioned so we've
already haven't lost too much prep space
or storage space being a smaller
container and one of the things which is
definitely a bit of a luxury for a
smaller home is to have a dining table
yep run for six absolutely we love
having friends come over so one of the
requirements was at least four and we
were lucky enough to thrift our lovely
kitchen table out locally and there's
more than enough room in here to
entertain six people in for lunch or
dinner brilliant and then over here we
come to one of the first of the little
joins and the containers yes so this is
the first link which
houses just the laundry and just a small
pantry so we didn't really want to have
to make space in a small house for these
sort of appliances like a washer so
we've really gained that sort of space
in these links and also having their
doors on you can have the washing
machine and it minimizes the sound so
it's fantastic you can have it going and
being on your laptop and it's not overly
distracting so it's great because you
can shut it away and forget what's
happening behind there and then what do
we have over here in the next container
this is our lounge and study area
definitely my favorite part of the house
and I can see why this is so cozy
absolutely it's so great we have the
north and the easterly aspects so we
gained some beautiful morning light in
summer and then during winter it really
floods in so sitting on that couch with
the morning cup of tea is divine but one
of my favorite things is cozying up in
winter in front of the wood burner a
wood burner like this so quickly just
becomes a central feature of every home
doesn't have you so we were lucky to get
us up another project so it was a
minimal cost for us and it really heats
the house really well in Australia you
can have pretty harsh temperature
variations can't you and I've noticed
that in this home you're just utilizing
fans I don't see any air-conditioning no
that was another thing with the star
rating we made sure we had enough
insulation to make sure it was thermally
comfortable during winter so we only
needed the wood burner and also during
summer where we only require the cross
flow ventilation so the natural winds
calling home and also the use of the
electric fans on the ceiling we have
only turned them on four times last
summer we are very conscious about
closing down the house when warm periods
come through so it can be really nice
and cool in here if we've shut down the
house and there is none of that solar
gain during those warmer periods now
tell me about the seating area here as
well because it looks like you've built
quite a bit of storage in this yes lots
of their sort of furniture we put in
stir has there's no sort of like furnace
we bought in as such part from at the
stores so everything is built in store
so it's a full depth draw for each one
so it's functional furniture we've also
got all of our bed linen and towels and
everything in the other drawers but one
of my favorite drawers is out tiny house
wine cellar I bet you're looking forward
to when you're able to use that or again
oh absolutely
six weeks and Counting nice and then
over here we have your workspace yep so
really generous space really functional
so we kind of work a little bit from
home or our own projects in the evening
and this is the perfect space but really
I like how you've set it up that you
both have your individual working space
here - absolutely you can obviously see
from the decorating above who's whose
and we do really enjoy having our sides
of the study area and then behind me
here this is another one of the Winx
absolutely so this is where we have some
great hanging solutions as well as more
hanging some more bookshelves and vacuum
so it's fantastic that we're able
utilize every single aspect of our home
and then what do we have in our last
container we have our bedroom as well as
our bathroom this is cool it's really
interesting how high you've raised the
bid a big thing as we've mentioned was
the storage and making everything as
functional as possible so we decided to
pick the bed up off the ground so we
could have that storage and this is a
queen sized bed that's correct
so within those dimensions that really
does just give you a tremendous amount
of volume underneath it to turn into
storage and these drawers are full depth
for the whole depth of the queen
mattress so for a generous map storage
that's really cool and that is a very
neat drawer someone's taught you to fold
thank you very much Amy so with the big
being as high as well it's got to be a
bit of a mission to climb up on how do
you do that we just do it with a lovely
handy stepladder here if there's
anything to change about the design of
the highway I think at this Pacifica
moment it would be fit have the bed one
drawer lower yes same 34 weeks pregnant
it's getting a little challenging
getting up and down on that bed but in
the way of long-term things no nothing
at all and now into the bathroom wow the
tile working here is gorgeous Oh got a
very very talented Tyler being a smaller
home we wanted to create the illusion of
there being a bigger space so we went
for full height tiles and also that wet
room effect so we didn't want any closed
in areas and by having the new walls it
creates a little bit of storage and
interest and depth to place plants and
products and everything on this so we
really did think out the bathroom and
how best be utilized and actually came
out being a lot bigger than we
anticipated so it is a very generous
bathroom and they've got a flushing
toilet here absolutely so this is just
into our septic system with the use of
rainwater and by having it all the way
back to the wall with the system being
built into the wall not only creates
this really handy nipple but it also
makes for a more spacious area so how
long have you actually been living in
the home now 14 months since we've moved
in and how are you finding actually
living in the space we absolutely love
it and as you can probably see we have
another one on the way and we are going
to utilize these spaces until baby
number two comes along so we will do
some remodeling and make it work for our
lifestyle going forward one question
I've constantly been asked is you know
don't you regret not having a nursery to
decorate and it's kind of I haven't even
crossed my mind being a small home and
not having a nursery to decorate it's
going to be fun setting up the little
bits and pieces that we do have and
they've been well thought out so when
the baby comes along we do have a nice
bassinet which we have color matched to
our envelope furniture in the house and
with the laundry how it is it's going to
be great space you know to change now
he's gonna set all that up and utilize
the laundry space to make that work for
us and again shut it away so it's not
staring us in the face one of the great
things were the utilizing shipping
containers is it is really easy just to
add another one on when you need it to
yeah so even in that end container we've
sort of decided if you were going to
extend where it would be so even a
window is positioned in a place where
that's going to make it more easy to do
the future I love that kind of future
proofing because it just goes to show
you really thought this all through yeah
definitely if it's kind of like the
great thing with containers is they're
all gonna be the same size they're all
gonna flop together well and there's
nothing I'm really out of place it's not
like you're slapping on some
out-of-the-blue
extension it's gonna be quite a uniform
sort of growth for the house this home
is beautifully done can you talk to me
about the cost involved in actually
realizing this build all up for the
build it cost us one hundred and forty
five thousand Australian dollars there
is quite a bit of joinery obviously
involved as well so with a substantial
amount of the cost being involved in the
joinery aspect that also includes all of
our solar all of our design fees and
also the septic treatment plan for all
of that together and the size and the
quality of this home that's a great
price definitely absolutely so one thing
we really wanted was a quality home and
also something that we're really proud
of and that is aesthetically pleasing
whenever you walk through the door the
fact that we thought so well about what
we're putting into the house and how its
laid out what joinery is working where
it's such a pleasant space to be this
home for us how we feel walking in at
the end of a busy
or if we've been traveling for work or
on holidays it's very peaceful not only
because of the environment had sat
around but we have loved every aspect of
this home from the design phase through
to finish so it's just a beautiful
sanctuary to be in you have both done
such a great job at this home it's
awesome to see how well it's working for
both of you and I'm sure it's gonna be
great as your family grows thank you so
much for sharing your home with me thank
you for coming Thank You Russ Cheers I
am just so impressed with this house
each and every aspect of it has just
been so well considered from the
interior which is very functional right
the way to the interesting aesthetics of
the exterior already as a couple this
house has served them very well and
there is no doubt in my mind that when
the new member arrives this is going to
be a beautiful family home
[Music]